From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists and Scott Hanselman
posted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
27. Recorded live Monday, August 25th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by teller. Rad controls.
The most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott and Carl, talk
about what's new in.net 3.5,
service back one. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And I'm sitting down
today with my good friend,
Carl Franklin. He's back again. And
we're talking about.net three, five
service pack. One as I
like to call it.at 3.6
shops is don't like me.
Yeah, that should be done
at 3.6. Well, there's a
lot of stuff in it.
I don't know why it
was called , but it's
got a lot to it.
There's a lot of additional
functionality When you add new
features like the entity framework
and a story@ado.net data services,
it really should be something
other than a service pack
because to me, service packs
are updates to existing features.
Exactly. And I would tend
to agree. I think things
got a little strange when.net
three O came out. I
think we can all agree
that it was two Oh
additional libraries, right? That should
have been 2.1, but interestingly,
well, but it was a
lot of stuff. I mean,
game changing, big stuff, WCF,
WPF, totally new ways of
thinking about something. I don't
know if WPF would, I
don't think you could fairly
say that that would be
2.1. That's a pretty big
deal, you know, but 3.0,
I don't know. Certainly it
couldn't have been called, you
know, 2.0 plus pack that
wouldn't have been do it
wouldn't have done it justice.
Well, I think The confusion
there was that the framework
was essentially the CLR was
essentially still 2.0, right. There
is new features added to
it. Exactly. Cause with one,
Oh, we had a CLR,
one, one, we had some
bug fixes and another safety,
you know, another CLR, interestingly
enough. And then two, Oh,
we had a vastly different
CLR. Yeah. People just kind
of assumed that. And I
think it made sense. I
think that the getting versioning
right on something like that,
when you've got the framework
that base class library and
additional libraries is tough. It's
just so big. Yeah. It
is big. I would have
called it probably 3.8. I
think it would have been
a good number, but regardless
there's a lot of stuff
in it, but it's important
for people to remember that
it's still.net to point out.
So This is not only.net
3.5, one or 3.5 SP
one, but it's also visual
studio 2008 S P one.
Right? So you can, you
can have a machine that's
got done at three five
on it, and then you
can update it to three,
five S P one. And
then if you have a
developer's machine, that's got visual
studio, 2008, you would want
to update visual studio itself
to surface pack one that
would update, you know, the
development environment and you get
all sorts of new features
there. And then the underlying
CLR, the two O CLR
is moving from service pack
one to service pack two.
So the fixing a lot
of CLR bugs in the
process as well. And I
think that those things will
hopefully get tie-dyed up with,
with dotnet four or whatever,
they're going to call it
in the, in the future.
But, and believe me, you
know, I've only worked with
the company for, I think
this is, I'm just a,
I think I'm a year
next week. Actually. There's been
the company 51 weeks. So
Let's talk a little bit
about the entity framework. Yeah.
Well the entity framework was
an interesting one because this
is the object, relational mapper
mapper. Well, that's just, Yeah,
but it's a, it's a,
you know, they're pushing it
as a standard data model,
the entity data model, which
is going to be consumed
by multiple Microsoft applications. And,
and of course it is
an RM tool. They did
kind of things, kind of
an ORM. They didn't do
things quite the same as
some of the other mainstream
ORMs did. And you know,
it's drawn, it's a criticisms
for not having a desk
Confidence. And the guys@thealt.net podcast
had a very interesting podcast
about that vote. This was
basically a bunch of the
all.net guys got together and
signed a petition as well
as a lot of other
people. And they presented that
petition to the team. It
was a little dramatic, but
I think that the point
is is that they want
them to succeed. They want
it to be better and
they didn't think that it
made it there. Well, you
know, I talked to Franz
BOMA with Richard today and
a show in a.in Iraq
show that we're friends, Bauma,
excuse me. He corrected me
on his pronunciation. He's the
author of LLB Elgin, which
is a very popular RM
tool. And I asked him
what he thought about that.
And he said, you know,
it mostly comes from the
point that all of those
guys are consultants that make
their living with RM tools.
And they get into a
situation where the project manager
insists that they use the
entity framework. And of course
it doesn't have some of
the features that they want
and therein lies their, their
beef is over. One of
the things that culturally needs
to kind of stop is
that, you know, a lot
of big companies, a lot
of big enterprises will use
what Microsoft produces, right? They
wouldn't use monorail, but they'll
use ASP, net MVC. They'll
use, they won't use and
hibernate, but they'll use entity
framework, you know, and then
that's their prerogative. But one
of the things that I
think is nice and is
representative of the three in
the three, five SP one
stuff, is that more of
these things are getting better
with, with the third party
stuff. And link link is
going to the great equalizer,
but you know, you see
that the stuff that Phil's
doing with ASP net MVC
is certainly getting along well
with all the other third
party, you know, hack feel
hack. Yeah. Yeah. And actually
that's one thing to point
out about service pack. One
of 3.5 is that it
does not include ASP net
MVC. There was some confusion
about that. It was always
intended that MVC would be
a separate release or an
RTW release to web at
some point in a future
month that ends in bur
like March Burr, January. But
yeah, a lot of people
thought that they, they install
three, five SB one. And
I said, wait a second.
Where's where's NBC. In fact,
we did get some pieces
of NBC and some artifacts
like a routing, which was
a portion of NBC that
was recognized early on as
being really valuable and then
pulled into ASP net dynamic
data. And then ultimately was
moved out of system dot
web dot MVC dot routing,
and pushed up. It's now
system dot web dot routing.
So routing itself is a
part of asp.net proper now.
And something that you can
count on, whether you use
MVC or dynamic data or
neither. So the next big
feature ado.net data services. Now
I know you've done a
Hansel minutes show on this
or too. Yeah. And I'm
actually going to be going
to Australia on later this
week. And I'm going to
give a talk at tech
ed Australia on a ATO
to net data services, formerly
a story. This is very
exciting. I like it. I
really think it's, it's really
cool because I spend many,
many years trying to get
data over Ws star, right?
The web services stack. Exactly.
People call it Ws death
star because it's just very
imposing. There's a lot going
on there. So, So what
they've done here is they've
simplified things and they've gone
back to what they call
just simple rest, which is
traditional state transfer, which is
essentially HCP Present a crud,
create, read, update, delete over
some common HTTP verbs, like
get post put and delete.
But also the concept that
data in this case entities
are our resources, web resources.
So any one entity should
be addressable via a URL.
I can pull back an
Adam feed and Adam pub
feed of these different entities.
So I could go and
say, you know, hanselman.com/northwind.service/products and
get back a feed, a
syndication feed in a syndication
format where the payload for
that feed is not a
blog and not blog items,
but rather a entity HTML
entity XML rather. And you
know, a format that I
could consume. What's cool about
this is it makes frankly
getting stuff over the web
easier. They've got clients in
for Ajax, they're working on
a client for Silverlight. You
can very, very easily add
these services using the same
WCF, add surface reference, right
click menu from visual studio
that you're used to doing
now and make when forms,
web forms, applications that very,
very easily then bind to
these collections basically. And you've
got linked to rest, which
is pretty sweet. Do you
think that this is a
pushback, a simplification, a pushback
from the complexity of soap
and particularly wisdom, but maybe
soap was the UDDI the
whole AWS stack. I, you
know, I used to my,
my knee jerk reaction was
that this was a rejection,
but I'm realizing it is
simply different. It's it's a
parallel track. It is, it
is crud. It's get read,
update and delete. It's not
a necessarily message passing over
soap with all of the
headers and security and all
the different extensions and the
formalization of the soap protocol.
Okay. I could see building
systems that you would use
both it's it solves a
problem. You know, it certainly
would solve the problem that
I had, which was moving
accounts and money around. I
was trying to go and
make web services, like get
account request, be via message,
and you'd pass it in
to get accounts. And I
was trying to model rest
over this message passing format.
And when I learned about
rest, I said, well, this
is what I was trying
to solve. That doesn't mean
it matches every problem. It
just means it happened to
match the one that I
was working on. Also a
lot of team system improvements.
I'm not really familiar with
a lot of the team
system stuff. I know that
there's been a lot of
improvements on the backside for
the, the team foundation server
service pack. One lot of
database and optimizations for big
chain sets. Yeah. Some version
control fixes and automatically supporting
non solution controlled files. For
example, some work item tracking
office 2007 integration. Oh, we
using a ribbon, a source
safe migration tool support for
SQL server 2008 with team
foundation vibration tool. Yeah. So
there's some really good stuff.
Applause. Yeah. Yeah. The sooner
we get off of saved,
the better the world will
be. Yeah. And we used
to say that about a
well, okay. Nevermind. Of course,
as peanut dynamic data. Yeah.
The, you know, all the
MVC is getting people, not
thinking about dynamic data. You
know, we did a talk
with dynamic data with the
PM, Scott Hunter recently, and I'm
starting to figure this thing
out even more, you know,
I thought it was scaffolding.
It's not scaffolding. It's more
than that. I thought it
was, you know, a jumpstarting
way to make, you know,
more web forms faster, but
they're going to be doing
an NBC version. So you'll
be able to generate a,
you know, MVC style pages,
but you can just take
a regular old web forms
page like a regular old
web forms project that you're
already working on, drop a
dynamic data manager control on
that form and drop a
list view in. And you're
starting to think about dynamic
data. You don't necessarily have
to go and make a
quote unquote dynamic data website.
So I mean, they sort
of, they sort of pushed
it as sort of scaffolding.
I think that the scaffolding
demo was easy. You, this
is one of the things
that's difficult. You want to
show someone something you want
to show them the elevator
speech, right? There's nothing quite
much quite faster than file
new awesome demo. I guess
They also wanted to get
the, the rails crowd listening.
Well, you know, scaffolding is
sexy. It's, it's great to
be able to get up
and fast quickly, you know,
I'm up and fast quickly,
what am I saying? You
know, it's, it's nice to
be able to just say,
look, boom, Northwind. So I
build a whole website, ah,
no code. Right. But you
know, I've talked to Peter
Blom, right. You know, Peter
bylaw, Peter. Yeah. Peter. Peter's
awesome. Yeah. He is scary
smart. And, and something clicked
for him a couple of
months ago and dynamic data.
And he just said, Oh,
this is something I can,
and you, you know, you
watch the control vendors. This
is a guy who was
going to exploit the hell
out of, of dynamic data.
And he's one of the
guys who helped explain it
to me. And it started
to click. And I started
to realize that this is
a more interesting meta templating
system, a meta programming system
than it is, you know,
cogeneration. We've got lots of
new videos up at asp.net/dynamic
data talking about that. And
I've got to figure out
more effective ways to explain
to them and data to
people because it's so easy
to just dismiss it and
go, Hey, you know, it's
dynamic, dude. There's some new
stuff in Ajax too. Apparently.
Yeah. Portraying Leroy and those
guys in the Ajax asp.net
team added some browser history
stuff. Now this is really,
I don't quite get it.
Cause JavaScript still is magic
to me. But basically they've
got techniques to put points
in history. Basically they can
do different techniques based on
the browser. Right. So they've
actually got an abstraction layer
over the top of a
number of techniques. So for
example, you might have a
tiny I frame that you
can't see. And that will,
that I frame will navigate
forward to, you know, other
fake pages when you do
an Ajax action. So you
might, let's say you have
an accordion control. The according
control would be like the
thing in office or outlook
2007. And you click from
mail to calendar. You get
to decide if you want
the clicking on that accordion
control to be a point
in the history. So then
it manages that and fools
the browser into thinking that
a forward navigation has occurred
such that you can then
back up and Ajax, you
know, an Ajax or JavaScript
style. Yeah. Because that's been
an event that's been a
particularly difficult thing to do
in the browser with Ajax.
How do I, how do
I undo? Yeah. Oh yeah.
And you can't take over
the back button. Right? A
lot of people will say,
you know, early on with
Ajax applications, you hit the
back button accidentally and suddenly
you lose your entire application
Nor do you want to,
I mean, the back button
is not a solution because
it's not plugged into the
architecture. Right. Well, the idea
though, was that people are
used to moving forward and
pages, they click on something
and the page changes dramatically.
They would expect hitting back
would undo that. Right. But
an Ajax application like, like
early versions of Gmail would
stay on the same page
forever. Yeah. You know, Gmail
is a great example of
an application that does browser
history really nicely. Yes. You
can click on different categories
and hit back and you'll
go right back where you
were. Hi, it's Scott here
from another place in time.
I hope you're enjoying the
show so far. I apologize
for interrupting it, but I
wanted to let you know
that assembling a podcast like
this every week, isn't free.
Certainly the bandwidth bill crushes
us every month. So I
wanted to let you know
that this show is sponsored
by Tellerik. They make the
show possible and it makes
it pretty cool products as
well. For example, if you're
trying to build a web
2.0 Ajax application, trying to
use the web 1.0 components,
it's kind of difficult. You
got to get the next
gen stuff. If you want
to build the next gen
websites. And that's exactly what
the folks at Tellerik have
got and their new upcoming
product, which is code named
rad controls. Prometheus's a big
pack of web controls built
entirely on top of the
Microsoft ASP net Ajax stuff
that you already understand. It's
going to give you a
lot of performance interactivity on
your next project. They mirror
the ASP net Ajax API.
So the development's really straightforward
client scripture's shared loading time
is pretty fast. You set
a couple of properties. You
can even bind a web
services for really efficient operation.
The new rad editor for
ESPN at Ajax loads up
to four times faster than
before. And the rad grid
will do thousands of records
in milliseconds. But of course
it's, it's better to try
these things for yourself. So
you can visit  dot
com slash ASP, net Ajax,
and download a trial. Thanks
a lot for listening and
we'll get right back to
the show. Hey, can I
get off on a tangent
for a second? Have you
noticed some weird things with
Gmail lately and the browser?
In what sense? Just like,
well, what can I say?
I've noticed it's been a
little slower lately. I had
it down for a couple
hours last week, Getting into
circular errors. You know, I,
it's a funny, I've actually
noticed more errors, just flat
out errors on Gmail in
the last kind of month.
Yeah. Than ever before. Yeah,
me too. I have noticed
that it was down for
like four or five hours
a couple of weeks ago.
Right. Which was bizarre as
our world was ending. I
had no idea. I'd never
expected that to be done.
And then I would get
these weird kind of server
server error. It was kind
of these cutesy messages. Like
something went wrong, They went
wrong. Check back in a
few minutes. We're fixing the
problem. Yeah. But I have
these weird cyclical problems. Like
I'll, I'll get into this
situation where it keeps refreshing
the page over and over
again, and nothing ever happens.
And the box comes up
that says, you know, in
internet Explorer, do you want
to allow a secure and
non-secure items? And it'll just,
I'll keep pressing. Yes. I
have to switch to Google
apps for your domain. Yes.
Okay. So I found that
up, turning off the chat
in Gmail, we'll get rid
of that error. Oh really?
Cause I don't really, the
chat widget is in, is
insecure while Gmail is secure.
Really. So if they go
to the scroll of the
very, very bottom of the
browser, it's says standard standard
without chatting. That's what I
do. If I go to
standard view, which is not
the Ajax view, that's the
only way that I can
do that. And then after
hitting standard, I can go
back to the, or if
I go to simple, basic
HTML view rather, and then
back to standard view, that's
the only way I can
get around it. Try the,
The, the, the standard view,
the Ajax view minus the
chat widget. Yeah. I'm turning
off the chat. That's fine.
See if that makes it
Interesting though, you know, Google
is seen as this, you
know, perfect, simple little application
that all the magic happens
on the backend and we
don't realize they're their company
like everybody else. Well, I
think with their own problems,
It's, it's interesting, you know,
Microsoft certainly got its problems
and I know them as
much as anybody, but I
have noticed in the last
six months, Google and Apple
kind of the shyness come
off. Yeah. I'm not saying
that. I'm not saying that
in a kind of crabs
in a bucket, you know,
Hey, they're trying to climb
out of the bucket. Let's
jump on their back. But
what I mean is that
writing good software is hard,
you know what happened? And
it's just nice for people
to realize that It's hard.
You know, what happens is
they're, they're finally getting critical
mass, you know, the sort
of numbers of customers that
Microsoft is used to dealing
with. And now they have
to worry about backward compatibility
and this kind of stuff
that Microsoft's had to deal
with forever. Sure. You know,
this is what happens when
you have millions and millions
and millions of customers. You
know, I have a MacBook
pro I'm using it right
now. I think it's a
great, wonderful well-designed beautiful machine,
but it crashes regularly. And
I've got a Mac book
Pro I've also got a
Mac mini. The wife uses
the Mac regularly to, to,
to browse. I think of
the Mac is my couch
computer. That's the machine that's
next to the couch, grab
it, you know, Safari crashes
all the time. It does,
you know, bad plugins or
bad plugins browsers crash. Well,
I think a lot of
windows people have sort of
bought into the hype from
the other side that, Oh,
max are these perfect things
that never crashed, never have
viruses and never have bugs
and everything. I mean, that's
what you would think from
this freaking commercials. You know,
you, the only way that
you can really get educated
about this is to try
different operating systems. Right. And
that's why I've got an,
a boon to machine, you
know, and what's great about
the Buendia machine was what's
so funny about it is
that the shell will crash,
right? Like normal crash, like
the, the, the, the Explorer
equivalent, but the, you know,
the Colonel never dies. Right.
Cause you just, you know,
the machines going, you can
see the hard drive going,
but you destroy the UI.
The X server is shut
down and you're back at
the command line. Yeah. But
Hey, we digress. Yeah. Is
like that too, you know,
explore will crash and Vista
will just keep going forever
Quick. Great feature that I
love about 3.5 service pack.
One JavaScript, IntelliSense. Yeah. Dude,
this is huge. This is
huge. This is inside of
visual studio. Yeah. Yeah. One
of the things that Scott,
this is like, I think
this is Scott goos, most
favorite new feature because he
talks about this one constantly,
but this is the idea
that you can annotate your
Java script with enough information
that it's, it's able to
give you really, really smart
IntelliSense and it'll work on
jQuery on prototypes, Scriptaculous UX,
TJs, all that stuff. That's
awesome. And particularly for, for
J query, I think that
a cer visual studio service
pack one really makes a
jQuery, a joy For anybody.
Who's not using a XML
literals. Oh yeah. And the
whole, yeah. Well, there's also
some other stuff that's going
to deep inside of visual
studio. That's subtle, but it's
the kind of things that
people care about. Like if
you go tools, options, and
go under the text editor,
there's a whole new section
under formatting that can, you
can basically set your preferences
for how you want your
Java script formatted much. Like
you want your, you know,
your C sharp or your
VB formatted. So you can
say things like, you know,
I want a completed block
when I close a curly
brace or make spaces after
common. Delimiters, you know, all
the kind of stuff that
once you have a page
or two of code, you'd
like it to be tidy.
Yeah. And you'd like to
be able to say, this
is how I want my
stuff formatted. It's buried. I
mean, it's inside the depths,
but for people who care
about that stuff, it's cool
that they're still paying attention.
You know, There's a lot
of things we haven't talked
about. The WPF and visual
designer improvements. Yeah. Very cool
stuff. Like a, a writeable
bitmap that enables real time
bitmap updates from a software
surface. Very cool stuff. Yeah.
I mean, I'm not a
WPF expert, but there's some
very cool features in there.
There's that hardware acceleration stuff
that the effect In WPF,
there's this notion of, of,
of capabilities tiers, basically how
much of the WPF stuff,
can we push up into
the, the hardware? Yeah. And
like, for example, there was
a feature called bitmap effects.
That was a way to
do things like glow Blurring
and drop shadowing. You know,
There's a thing called shader
effects, which is explicitly hardware
accelerated in service pack one.
Yeah. Which is very cool.
And of course there's lots
of CLR improvements to make
WPF and WinForms apps start
faster from a cold start.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So
you'll find that your, your
existing applications will be snappier
because of the way that
memory is, is laid out
Just pretty much across the
board improve the performance of,
of applications in escalators. So
there were a number of
CLR improvements, specifically, as I
understand it in the way
that they laid out memory
and loading modules into memory,
such that they could be
accessed very quickly. Very cool.
So that's that stuff's all
new and things should feel,
you know, 10, 15% snappier
with, depending on what you're,
what you're trying to accomplish.
Yup. So many other more
subtle things that are cool
of course has had they,
they put back classic ASP,
IntelliSense. I don't know if
you noticed that this was
gone. I didn't know this
back. I haven't done any
classic KSP well, it disappeared
in 2008 and people freaked
out. So it's back and
you can get ASP net
as you mean regular classic
ASP IntelliSense rather. And as
well as debugging, they, they
basically incorrectly assume that people
weren't using classic ASP, which
is a huge, Huge mistake.
I know there's a new
ribbon control like office 2007
ribbon, which by the way,
I really love, and it
didn't take long for me
to figure it out. I,
you know, I was a
little skeptical of the ribbon
at first and now I
just totally love it. It's
a nice segue. I was
very smooth directly from classic
ASP into the future. It
was in control. It was
no, I will. I will
segue from there even more,
even more comfortably to a
script combining, have you seen
the JavaScript script combining? No.
Tell me, so if you've
got a, an application, that's
got like a pile of
JavaScripts, just, you know, one
after the other, after the
other that can turn into
a lot of script source
equals a lot of HTP
calls back to the server.
There's a thing called the
composite script element. Okay. It
sits on script manager and
it basically lets you put
a bunch of script, reference,
script references inside it, and
then they get combined on
the server and then you
get a single script surfed
back to the client. So
you have fewer requests to
the server. So is it
about that as it'll actually
work with, with both with
JavaScript, that's on the disk
as well as JavaScript that's
in a, a resource. I
think it puts it all
in one JS file. Is
that what It, it, it,
dynamically composites combines the scripts
into one file and serves
you just the one. Well,
that's good. Yeah. It's pretty
sweet. Like on my side,
gosh, I've probably got seven
or eight, right? Yeah. You
can combine them all into
one script. So, you know,
this is the kind of
thing that you would do
a, you know, sparingly in
the sense of, you want
to make sure you wouldn't
just do it Willy nilly,
you would want to decide
which scripts that would be
appropriate for. Yeah. But it's
just little stuff like that.
So there's a lot of
tightening the screws, which I
think is cool. So before
we end the show, I
just want to say that
I've been using Vista 64
bit on a, on another
laptop now for a good
four months. Good, good. I
finally got you hardcore in
the 64. Well, I just,
I can't find anything bad
about this computer or this
operating system So much more
stable. It's just, I've got
my son never crashes. It
never crashes. It just sits
there. If, once you've got
solid drivers, if you're having
a problem in my experience
with this the 64 bit,
it's either a that you're
having a bad disc drivers
or bad video drivers. Once
you get that solid, it
just sets it just right.
It totally rocks. Yeah. Yeah.
64 bit is a really
nice place to be very
happy with that. We've done
a 64 bit show. We
should do one about getting
32 bit applications to run
debugging.net applications on 64 bit
and all that kind of
stuff. We haven't because a
lot of people email me
that they hear that I'm
running 64 bit and I'll
say, you know, I'd like
to upgrade to 64 bit,
but I really don't know.
Should I do that? Can
I still make 32 bit
applications? What about visual studio?
Is there a 64 bit
version, you know, explaining all
that would be a really
good show. Okay, cool. I
also, you know, I run
every operating system here and
to windows 2000, I think,
I think I have a
machine still running windows 2000
somewhere, but I have XP
on a few machines. I've
got server 2003 on a
couple of servers. I've got
Vista 64 bit on a
laptop. I have a XP
in parallels on my Mac,
my Mac book. I have
actually server 2008 running as
a workstation. And that is
pretty amazing. Have you done
a show on that? No,
I haven't. Actually someone accused
me recently of talking about
doing shows in the future
and then forgetting no. And
someone said I should go
back and look at our
transcripts and search for it.
Yeah. Let's do a show
on that and then promise
to do all those shows
so we should get our
transcript gnomes. Well, that's good.
That's a good one. That's
a very good show. I'm
I'm very happy with it.
You know, because server 2008
is essentially the Vista Corps
and running as a 64
bit machine, you can do
the tweaks to sort of
make it really shine as
a workstation. Yeah. One of
these machines, one of these
days, I'm gonna have to
take one of my machines
and just, and try the
wind, the wind 2008 workstation
Arrow. I mean, I have
arrow, I have all the
features that I have Invista
all the glass, all the
glass and somebody did some
benchmarks on it that says
that it runs faster to
like 17, 17, 18% faster.
But you do, there are
obviously some things that you
don't get that, but, but
I don't need them. So
it worked out really well.
Alright. Alright, Scott, I think
that's a show. Don't you
think? I think so. There's,
there's lots of talk about,
but I would encourage people
to check it out. Oh.
And I wanted to introduce
a website that I made.
I'm still working on it.
It's not quite there yet,
but if you go to
a www.smallest.net.com, have you seen
this? No. You got a
browser? Yeah. Check it out.
Smallest.net.com. I'll spell it out.
Dot net. Oh, okay. So
smallest D O T T
E N t.com. Get the
smallest.net framework. Download possible. Yeah.
Yeah. So this is a
little little one page application.
It does one thing. It
looks at your user agent
and your OSHC and what
version of your ass and
your business and all that
and says here's about what
we think it would take
to get you up to
three, five S P one.
Well, I'm using a Mac,
but you know, I also
have, so what does it
say? Actually it says, it
looks like you're running a
Mac. There's no dotnet framework
download from Microsoft for the
Mac, but you might check
out either silver light, which
is a browser plugin. That
includes a small version of
the.net framework. You could also
check out mano, which is
the open source platform that
could run.net on a Mac.
Very cool. So let me
run with internet Explorer though.
Cause I am running parallels
and I can run them
side by side. Okay, good.
So we'll see what your
Mac with the VM of
Vista inside your Mac is
doing Www and this is
XP by the way, XP.
Okay. WW small list. D
O T if there's a
lot Of people who think
that the.net framework itself is
like a 250 Meg thing.
Right. You know? And it's
just, it's just not it's
somewhere between 10 and 60
megs, sometimes 80, depending on
what kind of pre-recs you've
already got. So this says,
I can't tell if you've
got dotnet installed, perhaps you
don't have.net installed or perhaps
your browser. Isn't letting me
know this is internet Explorer.
Yeah. Internet Explorer. But it's
running parallel to the very,
very bottom. Okay. And look
at the user agent at
the very bottom of the
page. It's Mozilla 4.0 compatible
MSI six Oh windows NT
five one S V one.
So this is an XP.
You don't have  and
you put, it looks like
you don't have dotnet this
little HP machine. That's right.
Alright. There you go. And
there's what the reason is.
The reason is because windows
update does not work on
my parallels installation of XP
scandalous. It will not install
any updates. Well, that's a
whole other show right there.
Yeah. Run a Mac. It's
awesome. Never crashes, no problems.
Alright. Okay, Scott, have a
good one. Give the best
to the family. Alright. And
I will talk to you
guys next week on Hanselman's.